>> Scott Moss: This one's pretty cool.
So, suspense loading states,
if you don't know what suspense is,
it's basically, it allows your
component to wait until some data
comes back before you render something.
It's the best way I can describe it.
And then you can show like
a fallback while it's waiting.
So perfect place for
loading indicator, that's suspense.
What's actually happening is that
components being streamed down,
chunk by chunk.
So, that way you're not blocking a whole
page while something is loading.
So, that's suspense, we're gonna get
that for free by doing one thing.
The other thing is going to be the error
handling, so, react introduces this thing
called an error boundary, which is
like a try catch for a component tree.
So if you can wrap a component
tree inside of error boundary,
it'll try catch that and show a certain
page when the error bubbles up to it.
Okay, we get that for free too,
by just making a file, so we'll be doing
both of those and we'll be able to see in
more detail how the caching works as well.
So, what we're gonna do is we're
just gonna make some loading files.
So all you really have to do is everywhere
you have a page if you add a loading file
next to it, that will show while that
page is waiting for its data to resolve.
You can also put an error
file next to that page and
that will show If an error was thrown
while that page was trying to fetch data.
So let's do that, the only caveat
here is that the error file must be
a client component because the error
gets caught during runtime and
the error boundaries happen at runtime.
And also you can do
things like on click and
you can reset them back to a previous
state and things like that.
The server, the, I'm sorry,
the loading component can be server or
client doesn't really matter.
But the error one has to be client,
you'll get an error if you don't.
So let's do that, so I'm gonna go
right down the route of dashboard,
and I'm gonna make a loading.tsx for
the homepage which the bottom
right on the grid, so
loading.tsx I'm gonna say home loader.
>> Scott Moss: And for
now I'm just gonna pass in
>> Scott Moss: Something like that.
Actually the component library that
we have has some really good loaders.
You know what?
Let's just leverage one of those,
why am I being lazy?
They have a spinner,
this is not even the best one.
The best one is the skeleton, but
I don't feel like making that.
So, all this spinner, I think,
because this is a server component,
you have to import directly
from the component like that.
So, I have to import directly from spinner
and not the slash react, which will import
some client side stuff, which might throw
an error in the server side component.
So I'll do a spinner here,
I'm gonna copy this.
>> Scott Moss: I'm gonna go into our
RSVPs folder, make a loading.tsx.
Do the same thing,
just change the name from home to RSVPs.
>> Scott Moss: Going to my events,
do the same thing, loading.tsx,
paste that,
change this from home to events.
Now we got some loaders.
>> Scott Moss: So if I go back
>> Scott Moss: And I refresh,
now you can see the caching, so
I'm just doing a regular refresh.
Look how quick those things come in,
you barely see the loaders, okay?
Barely see the loaders,
I'll do a hard refresh and
you can see this is what it
looks like without caching.
So, without caching, with caching.
>> Scott Moss: All right,
and also just notice how,
because these are all their own pages,
they come in at their own time.
And because we're using the loading file,
which is suspense, they're being streamed.
So the rest of the UI is good to go,
these things are being loaded in.
Whenever they feel they're ready,
they all have random delays, so
they pop in at random times.
And you can control their independent
states without having to figure out like
the whole route, the whole page or
the whole layout.
They're all independent.
>> Scott Moss: So I think this is
something, a lot of frameworks,
I think something like
this is what Astro does.
Or you might have built something
like this, cuz this is not new.
Like, for sure it's not new, but you would
have, it wasn't on the framework level.
It was like, cool, react suspense.
Now, how do we actually
take advantage of that?
You had to build a bunch
of stuff to enable this, so
really only the most elite
companies probably did it.
Now it's just, you add a file
called loading and you're done,
which to me is kinda crazy
>> Scott Moss: Cuz really
when you add the loading file,
what it's doing is it's taking,
it's going into the layout, I believe, and
it's wrapping a suspense around this.
It's saying suspense,
it's like doing this, and
then suspense takes a fallback.
And that's the loader that you wanna show,
so
it takes whatever you put in that file and
puts it in his file back here.
That's what it's done.
So you can even do that too, and in fact,
you would if you wanted to suspend some
client components,
you would have to right suspend.
So,
>> Scott Moss: Okay, let's do the Erawan,
so, I'll make a error file
on the root of dashboard.
Error.tsx, and then we'll throw
an error so you can see it.
So error.tsx has to be client, use client,
and I think I have some code here.
I hit Save so it broke.
Let me go back to the notes,
let's get, yeah,
I'm just gonna take this one right here.
>> Scott Moss: Do that, it's gonna
rename this to home error like that.
This thing is not syntactically correct,
is it?
There we go.
>> Scott Moss: So we have that,
let's go back to our page here.
So, everything still should work,
it's cash, everything's great.
So now I'm gonna go down here to
the home one, which is this one,
I'm gonna throw an error, right?
So I'm gonna go here, and
I can throw an error anywhere in here,
but I'm gonna throw an error
right in the function itself.
So I'm gonna go in here, I'm gonna say,
throw new error, oops.
So I'll do that.
What do you know?
Only that I'm gonna errors out, but
the rest of them load in
just fine independently.
They don't even care,
they don't even know.
>> Scott Moss: And
to me this is powerful because,
I would say most apps aren't like this.
Most apps, this whole page is gonna die.
[LAUGH] Like you're gonna see like a,
yeah, you're not gonna see anything,
the whole page is gonna die.
But now it's just that
little thing over there.
You can easily put a reset
button right there that says,
click that button to load this one
again which is exactly what I put.
That's what this button is, this button
is supposed to load it again but
it's just gonna keep throwing
an error cuz I hard coded it so
>> Scott Moss: Every, error file,
every error boundary file comes with a,
where is it at?
Here we go,
it comes with a reset as a fun, as a prop.
When you call this again,
it will try to re-render the page
in which it is a boundary for.
It's just a re-render, it's like
re-render this again, try this again,
try this again.
So yeah, you can just build a really cool
UI and it's like, something happened,
let me do that again.
You also should have access to the error
message, I believe, let's see.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, oops, there you go.
So it's like whatever error you threw,
you could put there too.